---
id: "100042"
name: La Sal Mountain Loop Road Scenic Backway
duration: 3 hours to drive, 1 day to explore
organization:
  - url: https://www.fs.usda.gov/sites/nfs/files/legacy-media/manti-lasal/La%20Sal%20Mountain%20Loop%20Road.pdf
    name: La Sal Mountain Loop Road Scenic Backway
websites:
  - url: https://www.fs.usda.gov/r04/manti-lasal/recreation/la-sal-mountain-loop-state-scenic-backway
    name: U.S. Forest Service
  - url: https://www.fs.usda.gov/sites/nfs/files/legacy-media/manti-lasal/Hiking%20in%20the%20La%20Sal%20Mountains.pdf
    name: La Sal Mountains Hiking Guide
designations:
  - Utah State Scenic Backway
states:
  - UT

---

From the alpine ridges of the La Sal mountains to the red rock desert and sandstone pinnacles of Castle Rock, this backway is an adventure! You will see mesas and buttes used in movies and drive past steep laccolithic peaks that often serve as the backdrop in photographs of the famed Delicate Arch. This 60 mile route is paved and starts about 8 miles south of Moab off US-191 and loops through the mountains down to Castle Valley and SR 128 where it follows the Colorado River back to Moab. The narrow winding road is not suitable for large RVs or trailers as there are tight switchbacks. There are no services available along the route so make sure you have all the gas, food, water, and other supplies you may need for at least a few hours.

__Facts about the La Sal Mountains__

The La Sal mountains were formed millions of years ago when hot magma rose up under the sedimentary rocks, unsuccessfully trying to form a volcano, and then gradually cooling over time. The overlaying sedimentary rocks slowly eroded away leaving the igneous rock behind to form the laccolith mountains you see today. Glaciers also helped shape the higher areas when they carved the landscape. The Abajo Mountains (to the south) and Henry Mountains (to the west) were also formed in this way and are visible from the Loop Road on clear days.

Mining and ranching have played a large part in the history of the mountains. Gold was discovered at Miner’s Basin and prospected from the late 1800s to about 1907, although only limited quantities were found along with copper and silver. Uranium was also mined in the La Sals. Ranching brought some of the earliest settlers to the area and ranchers are still allotted grazing rights today.

The La Sals are the most photographed mountain range in Utah, providing a dramatic background to the red rock mesas, buttes, and arches below.

__Bull Canyon Dinosaur Tracks__

For an added adventure, head a few miles off the Loop Road to see well preserved therapod tracks in an incredible location. Instead of heading left to Castle Valley from the Loop Rd, take a right at the stop sign at the intersection and head up the Gateway Rd (FS 207) for 5.4 miles. If coming from Castle Valley, just keep going straight past the Loop Rd turnoff. The site will be on the left about a half mile past the Fisher Mesa sign. There is a parking area, informational kiosk, and vault toilet. This road turns to well graded gravel suitable to passenger cars.

A short walk from the parking area will lead you to the dinosaur tracks overlooking Fisher Mesa and Bull Canyon. These three-toed tracks were formed 200 million years ago in the Late Jurassic period by carnivorous dinosaurs when the area was a shallow sea. This Entrada Sandstone tracksite is part of the Moab _Megatracksite_ that preserves millions of tracks throughout the Moab area. Therapods are typically bipedal predators and the ones who made these tracks varied in size from medium to large. Other Moab tracks sites can be found on BLM land in Mill Canyon and on the Willow Springs Road.

__Hiking in the La Sal Mountains__

The La Sal Mountains are a great place to hike to escape the summer heat of Moab. With multiple peaks over 12,000 ft and over 300 miles of trails, they can provide a rugged hiking experience or a pleasant walk among the trees. Trails are typically multiuse so please be aware of proper etiquette: bicyclists yield to both hikers and equestrians and hikers yield to equestrians.

Mt. Peale is the 4th highest peak in Utah at 12,721ft which along with the other peaks above 12,000 ft make the La Sals the 2nd highest mountain range in the state, offering challenging climbs to adventurous hikers. There are no constructed trails to the peaks with the exception of Manns Peak and the Tuk trail to the ridge below the peak.
