---
id: "2255"
name: Amoskeag Millyard Scenic and Cultural Byway
distance: "1"
duration: Even though this byway is just one mile long, there are so many things to see and do along this byway that you could really take a couple of days.
description: This byway sits in the pulsing heart of Manchester, New Hampshire's largest city, commercial and industrial hub, and cultural center.
path: wnmeG|iesLTjC?xBP^f@bAtNcBnPsA
attractions:
  - url: https://amoskeagtryptich.com/millyard-museum/
    name: Millyard Museum
designations:
  - New Hampshire State Scenic Byway
states:
  - NH
ll:
  - -71.466704
  - 43.000288
bounds:
  - - -71.46851199999999
    - 42.994575999999995
  - - -71.466704
    - 43.000288

---

This byway sits in the pulsing heart of Manchester, the state's largest city, commercial and industrial hub, and cultural center.

Masses of top-notch family attractions are so close together that it's easy to pack a lot into a day. Make sure to pack in the cultural and historic while you're here: don't leave without visiting places like the Currier Gallery of Art and the newly-restored Palace Theater.

Because of its excellent acoustics and large stage, the Palace Theater is home to the New Hampshire Symphony and the Opera League of New Hampshire. It also serves touring companies and musicians and community performance groups.

The Manchester special events calendar is filled the throughout the year with old-fashioned country fairs, holiday parades, fireworks, art exhibits, performances by the symphony and opera, trade shows, and the ballet.

The region surrounding the route, the Merrimack Valley region, is unique in itself. It has inspired poets, pollsters and political pundits; the latter two flock here every four years looking to New Hampshire as the bellwether in the presidential primaries.

Just as New Hampshire's residents offer insight into national psyche (politically speaking), the Merrimack Valley Region embodies much of what makes New Hampshire unique: this quiet and colorful region embraces three of the state's major cities and remains surprisingly rural. And in many places, the heart of a city and a dairy farm with its quiet country roads are within ten driving minutes of each other.
