---
id: "2476"
name: "Scenic & Historic A1A Highway"
distance: "52"
duration: 75 Minutes
description: "Along the Scenic and Historic A1A Highway one experiences rural ambiance between the river and the sea--nineteen miles of bikeway, walkway and waterway. Discover pristine estuaries, the world's first oceanarium, archaeological ruins, live oak canopies, abundant bird life, sea animals, and sand beaches with coquina rock outcroppings. Emerge from maritime hammock to miles of unobstructed ocean view with beaches, boardwalks, pier, and \"Old Florida\" communities. Be awed by the beauty and take home lasting memories."
path: "ouatDl~tnNzRcG|XkJnl@cR`Dk@hA?nObBlBHpCIhBc@nBy@pByA`MoMlA_A~By@r@MzAGtB@~d@tB~XbB`Pn@r]jB~BDbG[|JcB`RmD~QcFbtAq`@zx@oU|CmA`DgC|DkE|AqAhBgAlBy@v}@}T~]}Kph@eQvCsAbCiBbAiAvAuBlB_Ex@aDh@gEHeCKoRFaHZaFNkA|@sD~BaFdAyArBoB|CqBfZiLnd@yQruBmy@fq@qXlj@uTbGsCdKmG`SgI~r@qXft@iXjSaI~TmJj}@e]"
states:
  - FL
part of:
  - "2477"
ll:
  - -81.21334100000001
  - 29.668880000000115
bounds:
  - - -81.21334100000001
    - 29.475920000000087
  - - -81.12490799999995
    - 29.668880000000115

---

The Scenic & Historic A1A Highway parallels the eastern coast of Florida for fifty-two miles, through historic St. Johns County.  Visit the oldest continually inhabited community in the United States, learn about the ecosystem of the nearby estuary, and set sail from several marinas and boat clubs along the route.  The Scenic & Historic A1A Highway highlights the beauty, culture, and value of Florida.

Explore miles of beaches along the route.  You can sift for shells, observe several different types of seafowl in their natural habitat, or experience the ocean firsthand through swimming or boating.  The Guana-Tolomato-Matanzas National Estuarine Research Reserve features 35-ft sand dunes that provide an unusual vantage point for looking out to sea.  Snorkel with dolphins and race 300-lb sea turtles.

The Scenic & Historic A1A Highway continues through several historic communities.  Live the past through historical activities in several locations along the route.  Listen as the Castillo de San Marcos demonstrates how to fire an old Spanish cannon, or visit museums highlighting the many nationalities that have made Florida their home.  St. Augustine, the oldest continually occupied European-style city in the United States, houses over 2500 designated historic sites, from the old Spanish Cathedral Basilica of St. Augustine, to the Victorian-era Flagler Hotel.

Throughout St. John's county, the Scenic & Historic A1A Highway preserves the heritage and culture of Old Florida.
