---
id: "2556"
name: A1A Ocean Shore Scenic Highway
distance: "7"
duration: 15 minutes.
description: Take a step back in time and imagine a world where sea oats sway rhythmically in the salty breeze and giant turtles bury their eggs along the base of pristine sand dunes.
path: "wnrrDbj_nNik@nSkDjBuFhE{@d@_MvEcKzCqMxAgIdCs~Ati@cvA~g@qVvJsq@hW_UlJkS`Igt@hXyu@~YgPxGwMbIoo@hW"
websites:
  - url: "http://www.scenica1a.org/"
    name: "Scenic and Historic A1A Coastal Byway Website "
designations:
  - Florida State Scenic Highway
states:
  - FL
part of:
  - "2477"
ll:
  - -81.10257000000001
  - 29.42716000000013
bounds:
  - - -81.14846799999992
    - 29.42716000000013
  - - -81.10257000000001
    - 29.52285000000012

---

<p>A Tale of Two Cities. . . Take a step back in time and imagine a world where sea oats sway rhythmically in the salty breeze and giant turtles bury their eggs along the base of pristine sand dunes... a place where the delicate cries of seagulls can be heard above the hypnotic sounds of crashing surf... and a place where man is in total harmony with nature. Through this glimpse of "Old Florida", you have just entered the unspoiled and forgotten worlds of Flagler Beach and Beverly Beach.</p>
<p>As you drive along A1A Ocean Shore Scenic Highway, you will discover a world of tranquility and beauty unaffected by time and industry. The aroma of fresh salt air will tantalize your senses and your eyes will feast themselves on an unobstructed ocean view which extends for over seven miles. You may spot a fisherman casting his line from the famous Flagler Beach pier, or perhaps you will encounter a group of young surfers taking advantage of some of the best waves along the eastern seaboard.</p>
<p>While you are here, you may wish to stroll through the Flagler Beach Historical District and Museum, or possibly enjoy an eco-tour along the miles of nature trails offered at the numerous preserves, parks and campgrounds. A bicycle/pedestrian path traverses the entire scenic corridor and provides recreational opportunities for the cyclist, jogger and those who just wish to take a peaceful walk.</p>
<p>Marshlands and estuaries afford the interested visitor the unique experience of observing rare and endangered birds such as the roseate spoonbill, wood stork, blue heron and osprey in their natural habitat. Dolphin can often be seen weaving playfully in the wake of passing boats, and manatee become especially plentiful in the waterway during the spring and summer months. Flagler Beach and Beverly Beach are also known to be nesting grounds for giant sea turtles as well as a myriad of other wildlife including box and gopher turtles, armadillo and ghost crabs. Large pelicans fly along the dunes and are amazingly close to breaking surf.</p>
<p>Whatever your interests, we are positive you will thoroughly relish your coastal tour along the A1A Ocean Shore Scenic Highway and will want to return year after year to this land of natural treasures.</p>
