---
id: "73303"
name: Ozark Mountain Highroad
distance: "7"
description: The Highroad is state highway 465, which begins five miles north of Branson off US 65 and travels seven miles to state highway 76.
path: oda_Ffe~wPxApKXbEOf@JzOE~C_AjIcAjGeBlEwH|KsA~A}@jB{@~DSnE?rGcAzHsG|RcAxE_@tF?zIPxI`AlKbFf_@NvEyCxPOjGt@xJlBvRxDxg@\tGYrGi@~ByEjNoCdJwBnIeC|MQlDJdD|@xGpFbVrFrXj@bC|@lCnAfCrCxDvArAnFrD|KfDrGpAtPRvMlCxO~DdMbGbD\tNI`EVdBX`Iz@dIjBhCrBzAlBtF`JhC`D|CjBxHpC|B`C|AjCvDnNhAbDjApB|@dAz@j@xB`ApA^tLnCpMvB
designations:
  - State Scenic Backway
states:
  - MO
ll:
  - -93.22083299999997
  - 36.7112810000001
bounds:
  - - -93.31761899999998
    - 36.67554100000007
  - - -93.22083299999997
    - 36.71765900000008

---

The Highroad provides easy access to Branson attractions while allowing the traveler an exciting view of the natural surroundings provided by the Ozark Mountains. The area grew around transportation, and during the 1800’s the rivers and railroads took local produce and tobacco to larger markets.  Those same rivers and railroads carried tourists and visitors into the Branson area.

In 1896, one of those visitors was Harold Bell Wright, who came to the area searching for a milder climate to accommodate his ailing health.  Mr. Wright rode to end of the railroad line to Marionville, and then took horseback to the White River where he was taken in by John and Anna Ross near Mutton Hollow. As the author of The Shepherd of the Hills, Mr. Wright wrote of Ozark life.  His novel was published and distributed in 1908 from the Garber post office.  Although the Ross cabin is long gone, the old mill and train depot foundations in Mutton Hollow still remain as a trace to the Ozark Mountain people.

Come experience the Ozark Mountains from the Highroad and catch a glimpse of turkey or deer as you enjoy the country drive just a short distance from Branson.(The Highroad is state highway 465, which begins five miles north of Branson off US 65 and travels seven miles to state highway 76.)
